---
layout: post
title: Okay, that's weird.
date: 2021-04-04 09:25 -0700
---

What is weird fiction? I've just learned of the (sub)genre as like a thing that Poe and Lovecraft were doing. It irks me when something highly specific and cultural, like say an ancient tentacled monster rising from fissures in the earth (idk, I haven't actually read any of Lovecraft's Cthulu stuff, I'm mostly going off the Southpark episode lol) is named with such typical words, makes it feel cheap.

*Neweird*, okay we're getting somewhere, I like this term, anything sufficiently outside the zeitgeist needs a neologism. It's especially cool when the new word can preserve something of the meaning or form of the word it's drawing on. I get that "weird" was much less common in the 19th century and early 20th century -- it probably had a *weird* ring to it then, that self-reference making it a pretty good label at the time -- and that because of its resonance in people's imagination it became a popular descriptor, and thus lost the shine of its tone, eventually getting to the point I'm describing where it just falls flat. Weird fiction.

Like, if an 8th grader can use the phrase when they're bullshitting with their friends, totally unaware (as I was until yesterday) of the particular meaning, "Dude he makes like some weird fiction shit, it's like Harmony Korine or something," then it's not a good phrase. The word(s) shouldn't be so common in our everyday patter that any new usage is overwhelmed by the contemporary meaning and conotation. It's gotta be a word just uncommon enough that you can convincingly twist it. This is why the prefixes xeno- and pseudo- are so common these days, it's simply their position in the lexicon and some ineffable resonance between the words (or morphemes) and the times. 

Tentacles seem to play a role in forming the genre itself. China Miéville, who I'm completely unaware of, thinks it's important and describes the way the genre itself works, I guess. In the western tradition of myths and symbols there's no tentacles. It's all demons, daemons, fairies and other things with wings, dragons (some with wings), human-like creatures. Even going back to the descriptions of angels in the Hebrew Bible it's thousands of eyes and feathers and fire, floating rings and looping motion. Tentacles aren't about repition, they're like fingers with minds. They give the monster a split-consciousness. Moreso than cutting off say, an arm of a human, a tentacle never feels completely cut off in the reader's mind, I think. It's always (more or less) sentient. 

Are tentacles from Eastern mythology? I'm not going to research that question right now, but the existence and popularity of tentacle porn suggests there's something deep there. 

Weird is presence and eerie is absence. I don't know where this definition is from, I heard it on the Weird Studies podcast. I'm noting the presence of the doubled "e" in eerie, and how that's *weird*, not *eerie*. Like the opposite effect of the word "weird" in the 19th century I was positing above. Anti-self-referential. Anyway, bringing tentacles into western mythology is creating a presence. Thus, it's truly "weird" in this way. What then, would an eerie fiction be? Something written with absence, lack. Fiction written by an AI maybe (i.e. lacking a human narrator). What about the level of effect, though? These weird fictions, through these presences, generates terror and thus the sublime. A positive unknown -- My god what else could there be, is something you might say to yourself when shown the enormity of a Lovecraftian monster. A negative unknown. What would you say? My god, I hope there's nothing else? No, that's not right. Maybe the eerie can't produce the sublime. An enormous absence -- what experience is like that? Losing a parent, a shattered ego, amnesia. Hmmm, maybe there's something there about memory. I'll keep working at it.  