---
layout: post
title: Frankie's Blood
date: 2021-11-18 14:47 -0700
---
_
  
Long before Frankie died a soldier in those foreign desert lands of the Middle East, he was here, in West Texas. My Brother. And on this night and morning-after I’m fixing to tell you about, I pulled him out of the last fight I’d ever have to. And of course, in my brazen youth I involved us in some shenanigans thereafter, thinking I knew what was right for Frankie. I still don’t know if I saved him from something worse or sealed his fate.  

The phone rang about half past nine and it was Henry saying some trouble was starting up and I had better come down there and take Frankie away. I hung up with Henry, put out my cigarette in the scrambled eggs I’d made for dinner and put the plate in the soaking bucket next to the fridge. I opened a window to let out the smell of dry tobacco and wet eggs. Pulling on my boots, I slapped the film of light dust off my black shorts. I stood up, swinging my head through the thin cloud and turned out the lamp while having a coughing fit. The room blinked with the light of the neighbor’s Christmas decorations that never came down. Blue, yellow, red. I switched off the radio and Townes stopped singing about Poncho and Lefty.  I pulled on my jacket and felt for my cigarette case—three left that I’d rolled at lunch. I grabbed the keys to the Jeep and stepped out onto the stoop and lit a cigarette. Two left. It was a light and crisp night, dark, and I knew Frankie would’ve gotten into a fight tonight, even if he hadn’t been pissed off all day. Frankie ain’t no good. 

Me, though. My name is Jack Roberts and well, I’ve always tried to do an honest job since I left the town of Wink where Frankie and I are from. I received a scholarship to attend Alpine State University, in Alpine, Texas (about an hour of desolate desert driving from Wink). I brought Frankie down there with me when he graduated high school. But you never really leave the place you’re made.

Wink is in the high desert of West, Texas where the sun shines flat for far, far, far and has baked the land brown. It is an achy town of 600 people and just as many livestock with one stoplight, one gas station, one bank, one liquor store, and one derelict tin peanut factory that’s been falling down for twenty years. “Any day now, that wind’ll catch it,” someone in town would say. “Any day now,” a voice would reply. There’s also the Roy Orbison International Museum—Roy did a couple European tours, hence the “International”—but you have to call his brother up and he’ll come down and meet you if you want to go in. I think the number’s disconnected now, though. 

We lived just off-center in town, although the desert was never far-off and the roving bands of feral hogs bustling among the dirt alleys kept our eyes peeled. Their lips and teeth were always stained blue from eating the leftovers from Alberto’s Sno-Cone Shack. My father referred to our double-wide trailer as the “Ranch.” We had a caliche driveway and Dad owned an old military Jeep that he bought off a surplus lot next to the army base in San Antonio. The very same one I was using to rescue Frankie from the bar. He said he liked how it reminded him of Vietnam. Dad was in the reserves and never saw the shit, but I figured his service was the proudest thing he’d done. The Jeep sat on the lawn for most of my life, unless Daddy had been drinking, then he could manage to get in the driveway. The only time the Jeep had to be in the driveway was when we burned the lawn, which we did every year since Frankie was a baby.

I never really knew my mother, but she was a rambling woman with a wild temper and the tenderness of a jet engine. She and my father got in an argument one night in October that boiled up to my father standing on the porch, with baby Frankie wrapped up and held in one arm, a Styrofoam cup of Tanqueray in the other, and a lit cigarette half hanging out of his mouth. She peeled out of the driveway in a rust-bucket Honda Civic and when Dad cried out after her his cigarette fell on the withered lawn. It caught so fast and violently it looked like someone had poured fire on the dirt. Whole front lawn was covered. The last thing my mother must’ve seen was my drunk dad in his bathrobe, with a baby in his arms trying to light another cigarette our lawn completely on fire behind him. He burned it every year after that.

As I drove the Jeep to rescue Frankie that night, I rolled the windows down since I’d finally managed to fix them. They were still a little finicky. In the ashtray was one of Dad’s old spurs from when he was a ranch hand for Johnson family. Town was still, like crisp white bedclothes. All trouble had moved to the outskirts.

I reached the edge of Alpine and the orange aura of the street lamps faded, revealing a vast sky the color of pitch.  I pulled off into the gravel lot under a honey-colored haze that held the sky low. The cabin glowed soft red from the neon sign. I placed a cigarette on the edge of my lips and jutted my jaw to light it. One left. A line of cows stood at attention like soldiers along the fence that ran behind the back of the bar. Rolling scrubland stretched out behind the heifers for miles, dotted with pockets of grass waving in the breeze.  I could’ve gotten out of the Jeep right then, set my eyes towards Wink and walked straight there, probably two days, no interruptions. The giant ranch that abutted the back of this bar was unbroken, a complete swath between Alpine and Wink. This was one tiny corner of the Johnson Ranch. 

The Johnson Ranch was bigger than some states in Europe, and some states in the States. It was giant. Three zip codes and at one time it was its own county. The whole town of Wink is basically surrounded by the Johnson ranch and even though I was going to school in Alpine at the time, I still lived next door to them, so to speak. It was that big. And that’s just what is above the ground. They have the mineral rights to nearly an entire congressional district - which are Texas-sized districts, of course. Their family stretches back to the days of real ranching and trail riding, but black gold endows a special kind of power in the modern state of Texas whereas having a big ranch nowadays just certifies you for certain tax benefits. They still have about 2,000 head of cattle at any one time but that’s only tradition. Growing up, there were days I’d come home to find my father fumbling around trying to corral a Longhorn into the backyard. He’d call my name as I walked up with Frankie in tow.

“Jack! Ain’t we a real ranch now!” he’d say. 

I’d point out the J-Bar for Johnson on the animal’s hindquarters. 

“Oh, those fools won’t miss just one! Got thousands of ‘em,” he’d say as he made a grand arching gesture with his Styrofoam cup, and I could hear the gin sloshing. My father ain’t no good.

As I sat in front of the bar, finishing my cigarette, ashing it on Dad’s spur, I thought about earlier that day, when Frankie roared into our apartment with his tail up, already lit from a morning of hard drinking. 

“They’re taking the trailer, Jack! All of it! Gone! Those bastards I can’t believe ‘em!” Frankie said as he paced the kitchen.

I was at my desk, reading an issue of Dirt Bike Magazine, and I sat back in the wooden chair and propped my leg on the other.  “Frankie, if you’re here for a fight, I’m having none of it. So, you’re welcome to a sobering-up nap, but otherwise you best be getting on.” 
Frankie left. We’d been losing the trailer for years, but we only got the letter last night: FORECLOSURE.  

After Dad got locked up a few months ago, Frankie joined me in Alpine after some convincing. He graduated high school and that was good. But he didn’t want to go to college, What would he even do? he’d say to me. Frankie stopped staying at the “Ranch,” it was empty after all, and bounced from couch to couch. I told him there wasn’t nothing left in Wink and that he should come down to Alpine. There was a job hauling feed for the Johnson’s I could get him. And he could find something to study and apply to Alpine State. We’d figure out the money! He relented, applied and moved down here. 

I don’t know why my father decided to rob the only liquor store in a town he lived in, he would certainly be recognized. He was its biggest customer! I don’t even know if he planned it or if he just found himself in the middle of it. Thinking about it though, the Johnson’s own that liquor store. They also owned the bank that mortgaged our double-wide. They even gave me my scholarship, so in part, they own me. I think Dad was just tired of giving all his money to the Johnsons. So, he took it back. That’s how he got locked up. But I didn’t see the sense in punishing him like that. There wasn’t even a gun involved. 

I sat in the jeep, puffing off the last glows of my cigarette under the red neon sign. It hummed over the whole parking lot as people filed in and out of the wooden door. The door swung back and forth as the din of the bar rose and fell like a radio on swing. The hefty Jeff McCoy was leaving, arcing the door wide. A voice from inside: Hold that ‘sumbitch open Jeff! A commotion was growing followed by two loud bangs. I leaned over to stare right down the barrel of the entrance and into the bar. I saw Frankie, held up by two fists grabbing his shirt and belt, ready to be tossed head-first, belly-down by two women I hoped to never cross. Juanita, the bar’s owner, was taller than I was and used to be a champion barrel racer and extemporaneous speaker in the UIL debates. You weren’t quicker than her and you were not talking your way out of anything. Sarah, the smaller and tougher of the two, was the enforcer and she was leading the charge that night. Frankie picked his head up and saw me. 

“This ain’t concern you Jack!” he said. 

Sarah and Juanita rocked him back and then thrust him out the door like a limp floor rug. I put out my cigarette on the spur and leapt out. 
“Shit if it don’t,” I said, looking down at Frankie lying flat in the dirt. 
Sarah stepped off the porch and squared up at Frankie’s feet. “He’s right Jack, this ain’t concern you.” Folks had lined up, flanking either side of Frankie and me and each one of them looked ready to throw the first punch. Juanita stepped towards me, making an announcement like a referee before a boxing match. 

“Frankie insulted darn near everybody in this bar tonight, Jack. And we think it’s only just to add a little injury to insult. You understand. The boy talked about our daddies.”

Folks pressed in and Juanita almost sounded reasonable about the affair. I could see what Frankie owed. But when it’s your brother... I turned to the guy next to me who was drinking a longneck beer and he smiled at me, thinking I was relenting. I grabbed the bottle out of his hand and threw it end-over-end at the neon sign, drops of beer landing on people like the first rain in weeks. Sparks of red and blue burst over the mob as they hooped and hollered. I pulled Frankie by the collar and tossed him into the Jeep. We must’ve done a hundred-and-ten coming out of there that night. 

I drove us through country roads. Frankie had the window down and his cheek on the door. His black hair swept back by the wind, I looked at the shiner he’d acquired. Frankie’s face was hollow; he was always too skinny. I thought about Frankie’s fights over the years. Always the same comedown. And that job I got for Frankie in Alpine hauling feed for the Johnsons—that was our father’s job out of high school. What could Frankie hope for if he had to make his schemes within the shadow of our father? 
	
I thought Frankie needed out. And school was taking me there. Why shouldn’t Frankie go too? It was perfect I thought. Frankie was already living with me in Alpine, might as well get a diploma and ticket out, too. The “Ranch” was gone, and we best forget it. Wink would stay closed to us from now on. 

I lit my last cigarette. None left. We just needed the money.

“We’re gonna rob ‘em,” I said. 

“Rob who? Jack you don’t do that kinda stuff,” Frankie said looking at the horizon.

I told Frankie my thinking. This place was a trap for him and if he didn’t leave and get on the right side of the line, well there was a cell in Lubbock that already had his name on it. 

“Daddy might appreciate the company,” Frankie said, smiling.

“We’re gonna get you the money to go to school,” I said, getting us back on track. Frankie agreed, school seemed right for him. He wanted to be disciplined, he said, like me. And do something bigger than being a working stiff for the Johnsons. 

“Well, who are we robbing? Not many places keep that kind of cash around, Jack.” Frankie was sitting up in his seat now. I knew what he was thinking: one last go before the straight and narrow.  

“I know. That’s why we're going to rob the Financial Aid Office of Alpine State University. They got computers in there that move thousands of dollars with just a click.” 

I drove us back to our apartment near campus. We sat at the wooden kitchen table, drinking beer and listening to the radio, scheming the night away. We felt bigger than ourselves. We were cowboys. 

_________

“I can’t do this Jack,” Frankie whispered. 

Our backs were against the walls on either side of the door to the financial aid office inside a stale and quiet office building. We had our dusty blue bandanas tied around our necks and orange University of Texas baseball caps on. I felt the cool plastic of my BB gun pistol in my waistband. The Jeep was idling outside in the fire lane, ready for us to whip out of there.
“You sure as shit can!” I said.

“I mean, I wanna go to school and all that but these people didn’t ask for this,” Frankie said looking at the ground. 
I waved my plastic pistol in his face, “These are our BB guns Frankie.”

“I know, but it’d be one thing if it were a bank or liquor store—”

“Sure, they’ll be scared, but no one’s going to get hurt, we’re not going to get caught, and you’re going to have a full scholarship for next year.”

Frankie sighed, “Alright. On three.”

We swung into the room and Frankie flanked the line of patrons just like we planned, capturing the receptionist in a headlock, plastic pistol threatening.  The door cracked closed while I kept crowd control. Only three people were in line: the first two were confused but the third one, a lady with big blonde hair and a Louis Vuitton bag was staring me right in the eyes. I felt a twinge of familiarity in my gut but stuck to the plan. 

“Now, ladies and steers, we’re just here for a little tuition—”

“Boys, just what in the hell is this!” spat the receptionist. She was in her seventies, haggard, and equipped with akimbo braids of thick graying hair. Frankie loosened his arms and threw up big white eyes at me. The people in line were more stunned by this exemplary display of a West Texas temper than me holding a gun on them. Truth be told, I was too. 

"Days of cowboys robbing people is over boys! And by the looks of it, y'all are new at this." She was staring up at Frankie now. I flicked my pistol telling him to release her. 

“Ma’am—Marlene,” I said, looking at the nameplate on the steel desk in front of her, “we’re just here to find some misplaced tuition funds. You can move thousands of dollars on that computer right there.” I tried to keep my cool and hold charge in the situation. 

“Well, I ain’t having this shit before my lunch break. You boys heard of banks? We ain’t got money here,” Marlene said.

“Not cash, ma’am, just a scholarship—” 
Marlene’s face scrunched. “Scholarship? You mean you boys is just trying to get one of them scholarships the Johnson’s give out?” She looked up at Frankie and then back to me. 

“Just him,” I said motioning my pistol at Frankie.

“Just me,” Frankie said. 

Behind me, I felt the third woman step out of line. I glanced back, and she was cautiously approaching me with her index finger looking like a lance. I didn’t know what to do, but before I said anything Marlene let out a loud sigh.

“Boys, those bastards the Johnsons haven’t given me a raise in ten years. And a scholarship is no skin off my back. If we could just put the firearms away...” 

My outstretched arm with a pistol on the end of it suddenly felt alien. Just about everyone around here had been burned by the Johnsons. I guess we could always count on that.

“Well, ma’am, I think we can oblige—” I was cut off by a finger in my face with white painted nails bigger than Frito chips. 
“Jack is that you?”

I finally looked at the blonde woman that had been approaching. Mrs. Johnson. My heart sank and I almost fell to pieces on the drab tile floor. She didn’t used to have blonde hair. The fluorescent tube lights hummed in the foam tiled ceiling. Mrs. Johnson pulled the bandana off my face and covered her open mouth. Her eyes were downturned—she didn’t look mad. 

“I didn’t know you boys were hurting like this,” she said, walking around behind me. “And this must be Frankie,” she said. She didn’t want to be saying what she was saying.

Frankie lowered his gun and took the bandana off his nose. He didn’t know who he was addressing, but it felt polite to do so. “H-hello, Ma’am.” Frankie said. 

“Mrs. Johnson—” Frankie and the receptionist shared a look as they realized who was in the room. “I don’t know what we were thinking. I just wanted Frankie to go to school and y’all gave me that scholarship so easy.”
Mrs. Johnson looked back to me and sunk her shoulders. Her head down, she placed her purse on Marlene’s desk and her hands on her hips. Turning around to face me, she asked Marlene, “What it cost to go here?” Mrs. Johnson looked like a mother rationing Halloween candy for her children. 

 “It’s two thousand four hundred thirty-six dollars and eighteen cents a semester. Ma’am,” Marlene said.

“That’s all? I swear we’d never make any money off this place if it weren’t for I tax benefits.” Mrs. Johnson turned around to look at Frankie. “Add this young man to the list of Johnson Scholars.” 

I didn’t know how to feel. I owed a lot to the Johnsons. And now this too. But they always got to feel like they were saving the day, and I think anyone can resent that. I didn’t want us being saved by them. But, what can you do when they own everything out here?
Marlene’s comments about the Johnson’s hung in the air. With the social dexterity characteristic of all Southern women, Mrs. Johnson shielded Marlene from the embarrassment and said she’d ask her husband about a raise.  Frankie walked around the desk and stood next to me. I rubbed the back of my neck, trying eke out a sorry apology. 

“Ma’am, I don’t know what to say,” I started.

Mrs. Johnson pursed her lips and said, “Don’t pay no mind boys. You must get this wild streak from your daddy.” I couldn’t tell if she was just giving us a hard time or truly thought we were doomed.

“Yes, Ma’am,” we both said.

“Now, get along before I wise up about this whole situation.”

Frankie and I looked at each other and took our hats in hand. I followed Frankie out the door, apologizing for the ruckus as I closed it. We walked the tiled hallways out of the office building, through the sliding glass doors, and out into the covered walkway. The Jeep was running in the fire lane, waiting for us. We got in and I drove us out of the parking lot, onto the county road and into the big West Texas sky, the sun high on our heads. We drove for a while before I said, “Let’s visit dad.” Frankie hung his head out the window in the passenger seat with eyes unfocused. He didn’t respond. Shifting in his seat he brought his head back in the truck and looked forward. 

“I think I want to join the army, be a soldier” Frankie said.

I thought about it for a tick. “Okay,” I said, looking at the road. He was right. 

Frankie settled in his seat, put his boots on the dash. He looked at me, smiling, “Let’s visit dad.” 

We stopped at a gas station on the edge of Alpine and picked up a six-pack of Shiner. We switched off driving, down through the Davis Mountains surrounding Alpine and then through the high desolation towards Lubbock. Laughing and drinking, we planned our lives as we drove. 


