---
layout: post
title: Birds.
date: 2021-07-28 14:47 -0700
---
Birds. Change. 

I gotta get to my birds in the morning. what would they do without me? They need me like I need them in this current world of ours.

My seed feed is always ready to go in the passenger seat in the morning. pigeons like sunflower seeds, the geese like bread crumbs, etc. I don my gown , my floor length coat and tasseled scarf—one time a swallow bit the dangly bit and flew off with it, like the tail on a kite. He gave it back. Sliding into my van is always a bit tricky because the steering wheel bar jabs my gut. you got to out here though. i got the 6 cd changer, bought it off jerry whom i’m sure “found” it, serendipitously, on one of his walks. i’m surprised my Hall n’ Oates cd hasn’t worn out yet, i know the Johnny Matthias one is past its prime. It's always Rich Girl when I turn the car on — and every day I pass the houses in Piedmont, with all the women who were rich girls and their daughters who are now rich girls. I drive to the lake and see the rich girls running in their tights, svelte legs like savannah prey animals. I feed the birds on seed and watch the rich girls run by me. 

Watching the throngs take flight is the greatest treat of my morning. Pigeons take off quickly, frenetically, you can’t follow a bird, say Joey, because they flash in and out of existence in the quick flaps of a fabric of wings. The mass moves with the arc of a baseball thrown, at once bound by gravity and yet defying it as the cloud moves left or dives right. Seagulls look sedated in comparison, they hardly qualify as a flock even, more like dots on the page, and they slowly wind up to top speed, which isn’t much. What I love is the contrast in space — you can watch right through the seagulls as the pigeon flock takes off orthogonally. One is like an atom, mostly empty space with small bits on the outside traveling in their own path within the greater path of the whole atom. The pigeons are like the images of cancer cells when they first get going, pulsing, dividing, somehow there are more than when you first looked, it’s chaos. 

But I don’t set them off. That would flout the whole principle of the morning. I cannot be the one to set off flight; it must happen naturally (and I understand that these are technically artificial) from someone, or a someone and their dog, walking by, or a truck horn, or the roaring to life of a Diesel engine. The morning is not when I make beauty, the morning is Life’s territory and I am merely the map maker. I make beauty in the afternoon when Jeff blows my walls out. Sorry to jolt you like that but I had to say something stinky after all the cheese in the previous sentence. Even this has been a bit too flowery for my taste. 

Why’m’I tellin’ you this? Acknowledging that I’m trapped in the written word and free in Life and yet here I write. It’s to make the map. Even if I’m the only one who ever uses it — even if the only teleological purpose it serves is the making of the map itself. Even I who write this, is not the I who would read it. No man steps in the same river twice, for he and the river change. You can only read this once. Thousands of times your eyes can follow the words, you can drag your finger painstakingly over each word, as you may be doing now, ticking forward then falling back to the left side of the page (screen), and still read it only once. Four thousand first times. Incredible. 

